mind your decisions I'm presto Walker
I'm thinking of two regular polygons one
polygon has M sides and DM diagonals and
the other has n sides and D and
diagonals if DM plus DN is equal to 125
solve for the value of M plus n a
version of this problem was asked in the
2018 Mathcounts national competition
students have less than one minute to
solve this problem without the use of a
calculator I admit it took me about five
minutes to solve so I think it's okay if
you take longer to solve this problem I
think Patrick from Germany for the
suggestion pause if you'd like to give
this problem a try and when you're ready
keep watching to learn how to solve this
problem
[Music]
I'm first going to present two formulas
for the number of diagonals any polygon
with K sides where K is greater than or
equal to three I'll then illustrate how
to solve the problem quickly one formula
is an explicit formula DK is equal to K
multiplied by K minus 3 all over 2 this
is useful if you want to evaluate a
particular value like K is equal to 100
another formula is known as the
recursive formula this is DK is equal to
DK minus 1 plus K minus 2 this is useful
for computing the next value if you know
the previous value this is useful if you
want to create a table which is what we
need to do in this problem before I get
to that let me prove both of these
formulas I'll first prove the explicit
formula by direct counting in a polygon
with K sides we have K vertices how many
diagonals can we draw from a particular
vertex well notice that the adjacent
vertices will form sides with this
vertex so these two sides will not be
diagonals of this polygon we also cannot
draw diagonals and itself so these three
vertices will be excluded in the count
of drawing diagonals from this vertex
but every other vertex will form a
diagonal with this vertex therefore we
have K minus 3 diagonals that we can
draw from this vertex if we do this for
all K vertices we have K multiplied by K
minus 3 now we have to make one more
adjustment every single diagonal
involves two different vertices to avoid
double counting we therefore have to
divide this by 2 and thus we have K
multiplied by K minus 3 all over 2 and
that's one way to prove the explicit
formula another way to prove it is by
considering the complete graph consider
K vertices as before now let's connect
every pair of vertices with an edge in
total we will have K choose 2 edges
because every pair of vertices will make
an edge now every edge is either a side
or a diagonal of this polygon but
remember there are K sides to this
polygon if we subtract the second
equation from the first we get a count
of the number of diagonals K choose 2 is
equal to K multiplied by K minus 1 over
2 and when we subtract K we get K
multiplied by K minus 3 all over 2 and
thus we proven the formula in another
way so now let me prove the recursive
formula suppose we have K minus 1
vertices and we have a formula that
counts the number of diagonals
how many more diagonals will we have if
we add one more vertex that is if we
have a case itíd polygons with K
vertices well as before these 3 cases
will not be diagonals of this new
polygon but every other connection will
be a diagonal of the polygon so we need
to add on K minus 3 more diagonals now
if we connect the adjacent vertices to
make sides of this polygon let's examine
what happens to this previous side of
the previous polygon with K minus 1
vertices well notice that this will
actually be a diagonal of the new
polygon so we need to add one more to
this formula the result is that DK is
equal to DK minus 1 plus K minus 3 plus
1 and that simplifies to be DK minus 1
plus K minus 2 and that's the recursive
formula we'll need to solve this problem
quickly so now let's solve the problem
quickly for fun let's see how long it
takes
well first create a table for the number
of diagonals a triangle with 3 sides has
0 diagonals a quadrilateral has 2
diagonals to get d5 we take d4 plus 3
this will be equal to 5 then D 6 is
equal to D 5 plus 4 so we get 9 to get 7
we add 5 to get 8 we add 6 and we
quickly compute all of the values in
this table we want to exceed 125
diagonals then we look for a pair that
has a sum of 125 this
be 35 plus 90 corresponding to D 10 plus
D 15 therefore M plus n is equal to 10
plus 15 which is equal to 25 and that's
our answer and we solved it in just
under 40 seconds I think this is a
really fun problem thanks for making
mind your decisions one of the best
channels on YouTube as always thanks for
watching and thanks for your support
[Music]